Subdomain enumeration is the process of finding valid subdomains for a domain. Can lead to discovering more potential points of vulnerability.

# OSINT

## SSL/TLS Certificates
Basically, when a SSL/TLS certificate is created, a "Certificate Transparency(CT) logs" - publicly accessible logs of every SSL/TLS certificate created for a domain name - takes part. We can use resources like https://crt.sh to discover subdomains belonging to a domain.

## Search Engines (Google Dorking)
Usage of advanced searching methods like `site:*.domain.com -site:www.domain.com ` for more specific results, in this case excluding the www.domain.com (likelly to be already known).

## Sublist3r
Automated method using tools like Sublist3r to discover new subdomains. Usage example: ``
``` bash
sublist3r.py -d acmeitsupport.thm  
  
          ____        _     _ _     _   _____  
         / ___| _   _| |__ | (_)___| |_|___ / _ __  
         \___ \| | | | '_ \| | / __| __| |_ \| '__|  
          ___) | |_| | |_) | | \__ \ |_ ___) | |  
         |____/ \__,_|_.__/|_|_|___/\__|____/|_|  
  
         # Coded By Ahmed Aboul-Ela - @aboul3la  
  
[-] Enumerating subdomains now for acmeitsupport.thm`
```

# DNS Bruteforce
Bruteforce DNS is the, usually automated, method that involves trying a lot of different possible subdomains based on pre-defined worlists (common ones). 
Example: ````dnsrecon -t brt -d acmeitsupport.thm ````

# Virtual Host 
Some subdomains aren´t always hosted in publically accessible DNS results. Instead the DNS records are kept on a private DNS server or even recorded on /etc/hosts  (or **c:\windows\system32\drivers\etc\hosts** file for Windows users). 
This takes advantages of the capabilities of web servers to host multiple websites and serve based on the host header from each of the requests. 
This header can be changed and monitored so we can use the responses to discover new websites available.

Example using ffuf:
``` bash
user@machine$ ffuf -w /usr/share/wordlists/SecLists/Discovery/DNS/namelist.txt -H "Host: FUZZ.acmeitsupport.thm" -u http://10.10.69.121` -fs 2395

# -H   - switch adds/edits a header
# -fs  - filtering by size (excluded)
```

